I've seen sometimes some stigmatizing sort of language
in the hospital when I would bring someone in and they,
in my mind, quite clearly need medical help,
but because the medical needs have been caused by substance use that there's
some eye rolling or, "Oh, here they are again."
A typical day for the Intensive Case Management Team is we work closely
with the Opiate Agonist Therapy Team and the Overdose Outreach Team.
We have a meeting in the morning, and we're all trying to help
our clients reach their best potential. So we do a lot of appointment
reminders, bring people to their appointments, make sure they get their
medications. We work around a Harm Reduction Model where
we're not trying to prevent the drug use; we're trying to make their drug
use be more safely used. I mean, I personally think that
there should be prescription fentanyl. People that use substances, it's
a human like condition, and it's been with us
since humans have been around, and it's not going away.
Sometimes a doctor or the housing provider will have some concerns about
somebody and we can go out and assess them, and
try and decide what needs they have and which service will suit them
the best. A lot of our clients need different things on different days
and, yeah, just listen and respond to what their requests are.
I find that some of the stigma affects our clients. They're less
willing to seek out help when they need it. Going to the hospital
isn't always a positive experience for them, and
involves some shame and guilt about their lives.
To know that could be a history this person's coming with,
and be extra gentle with them. And I don't fire a bunch of
questions at somebody all at once. We might do our intake process over
several meetings. The person doesn't know me and I start asking them about
their substance use or their... What is their financial income?
So definitely taking some time and trying to be helpful whatever that may
be, a ride to somewhere or providing some dry socks. So you're trying
to lay out some breadcrumbs for them to
engage with us, and some food works. It's very seemingly simple on the
outside, but it can mean so much to people.